# A JavaScript Platform for the JVM

Ringo applications are compiled to Java bytecode which can be executed on any standard JVM.
It takes a non-dogmatic stance on things like I/O paradigms. Blocking *and* asynchronous I/O
both have their strengths and weaknesses in different areas. Ringo ships with a large set of
built-in modules and follows the CommonJS standard.

## Ringo in a Nutshell

<ul class="technologyList">
    <li data-shows="tab1">Performance</li>
    <li data-shows="tab2">Stability</li>
    <li data-shows="tab3">Flexibility</li>
    <li data-shows="tab4">Security</li>
    <li data-shows="tab5">Open Source</li>
</ul>

<ul class="technologyDetails">
    <li class="tab1">The <a href="http://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/">TechEmpower</a> benchmark compares
    and measures the performance of various web frameworks. Ringo performs solid compared to other popular
    frameworks and profits from highly optimized JDBC drivers and the Java Class Library.
    The HotSpot JVM optimizes the generated bytecode at runtime.</li>
    <li class="tab2">Ringo is powered by the Mozilla Rhino JavaScript engine. It is embedded in Java 6 as
    the default Java scripting engine and powers thousands of applications. Ringo itself enhances Rhino to run
    performant multi-threaded code. Ringo's core modules are well tested and documented.</li>
    <li class="tab3">Applications can be deployed on nearly every JVM-based platform. Production-level Ringo
    applications run on large clustered servers, inside Linux containers, on cheap Raspberry Pi micro-computers,
    and on top of cloud platforms like Google App Engine.</li>
    <li class="tab4">Ringo allows you to apply the Java security model to JavaScript applications.
    Developers can provide own security policies and control which resources can be accessed by untrusted code.
    JavaScript applications can be locked into a sandbox to isolate them from the rest of the system.</li>
    <li class="tab5">Ringo and all of its modules are released under the Apache 2 License and the
    code is hosted on Github. It’s possible to fork, modify and distribute it in source or binary form.
    If you have a very specific question, you can look up the according code and see the detailed implementation.</li>
</ul>

<script>
$(".technologyDetails li").hide();
$(".technologyDetails .tab1").show();
$(".technologyList li[data-shows=tab1]").addClass("selected");
$(".technologyList").on("mouseenter", "li", function(event) {
    var $this = $(this);
    $(".technologyList .selected").removeClass("selected");
    $this.addClass("selected");
    $(".technologyDetails li").hide();
    $(".technologyDetails ." + $this.data("shows")).show();
});
</script>

### Creating a simple web application

Our aim is to provide an off-browser JavaScript platform that has the right mix of features
and simplicity to be pleasant to work with and easy to deploy. The primary goal is to build
a stable, high-performance runtime for server-side use. The following code is all you need to
create a simple web app:

    exports.app = function(req) {
        return {
            status: 200,
            headers: {"Content-Type": "text/plain"},
            body: ["Hello World!"]
        };
    };

    if (require.main == module)
        require("ringo/httpserver").main(module.id);

Simply save the code above as "server.js" and run it by executing `ringo server.js`.
Like most Ringo apps, this app will automatically reload, picking up any changes you make
without requiring a restart.

### Command-line Scripting

A very useful feature is the integrated REPL (Read-Eval-Print-Loop). You can enter it by starting
`ringo` without any arguments from the command-line. This brings up a Ringo environment which can be
used for debugging, testing, or just playing around with the runtime. Since the deep Java integration,
it's possible to write CLI tools in JavaScript accessing arbitrary Java libraries.

<script type="text/javascript" src="https://asciinema.org/a/14076.js" id="asciicast-14076" data-speed="2" async></script>

# Integrated into the Java Ecosystem

But Ringo lets you do more than write web applications. It allows you to
seamlessly use any Java standard class or external library simply by dropping it into the
classpath. This makes it easy to integrate Ringo into existing Java environments and reusing
existing Java code works without lots of effort or porting issues.

[Get Started](/get_started) or the [documentation page](/documentation) to learn
more about Ringo!
